Over a cup of sack, you could
suggest to me suitable premises.
I believed I would never know true
beauty till I set my eyes
on my own Virginia.
I don't know
if I'm fleeing from tyranny
or running away from a broken heart,
but I have to go.
I have a promissory note for you
Nicholas.
We must disguise any possibility of
conspiracy between we two.
Let every pair of eyes here see
what becomes - (SHRIEKS)
..of traitors!
(BABY VIRGINIA CRIES)
(DISTRESSED CRYING)
Aw!
My beautiful girl.
(DISTRACTING CRYING)
Are you sick again?
Hey? Hush now.
Your pa's here.
Your pa will always be here.
(GRASSHOPPERS CHIRPING)
What are you doing, Rutter?
Waiting, sir.
To see if he should blink.
This man counterfeited life so well,
perhaps he might play tricks on
death.
Would you jest
at a man's severed head?
Well, I think he might prefer
my jest to your axe, sir.
(CLEARS THROAT)
(LAUGHS)
(CONTINUES LAUGHING)
(COUGHS) 'Ere...
Get away, Rutter. Before I enjoy
your foolery too much.
(RUMBLE OF THUNDER)
(HORSE NEIGHS)
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(HORSE SNORTS)
Pluck yourself from your bed
every morning, Jocelyn,
and look upon Farlow's head
that you might be reminded
that even you must bow to power.
Even you.
(CHILDREN LAUGHING)
See? Yet another wasp at my mind.
England refuses to deliver to us
ships from Africa
filled with men, like Pedro.
Instead they grab vagabond boys
from the streets
and send them to work
in our fields as men.
Who would defy my command
that the Secretary's head
must remain here?
Look upon me.
All of you! I will not be defied!
Rutter! You were seen to give too
much attention to what was placed
upon that spike.
What use have I
with another man's head?
When I'm tormented enough by my own?
Take a care who you mock, Rutter.
This spike will stand here
till the man guilty of defying
our Governor is found!
Give some ale to a man
just off t'ship, won't you?
Well, I would, if I could see
a man stood before me. (GIGGLES)
You might be pretty if you smiled.
Hey, that kind of cheek will learn
you a slap you won't forget.
(CONTINUES WASHING)
I'll scrub your buckets
better than you can for that ale.
There's your water.
Tamlin Appleday. I'm to work on
Mistress Castell's farm.
What brings you here, Cap'n?
My ma was hanged.
Was she so?
I watched her being hanged.
Did you so?
I was this high. You're not much
taller than that now.
A boy don't need a ma.
All he needs is food and drink.
Ain't you just collected
all the wisdom in the world?
I intend to be King of Virginia
one day.
Oh? (LAUGHS)
Well, go to, little Prince Tamlin.
I'm sure your mistress will be eager
to win your favour.
Do you know who took
the Secretary's head, Master Read?
Didn't I see you walking beside
our Governor?
Perhaps you're allies once more.
Are you to be granted more land
to farm?
I often wonder about you, James Read.
You do not lack courage. You do not
want for capability,
yet while all the men around you who
came to Virginia are making rich,
here you are, king of your own
shrunken world of smoke and soot.
If I resist ambition, it's because
there are few who have both
riches and honour.
(LAUGHS) I do not seek sainthood,
but I do prefer not to hold hands
with shadows and clawed mad men.
When was the day, the exact moment,
when I grew tired of men expounding
their moral excellence?
Your balls, sir, sit softly in a sack
to give you quick advantage
on every effort of my life.
I do not say that your schemes are
not justified, Jocelyn,
only that they are dangerous.
Beware the darkness. Please.
You see this?
This earth is ours.
The Sharrows'.
You'll know this dirt well, one day,
my sweet little girl.
Yeah.
Ours.
(CHUCKLES)
Henry.
It is time that Winganuske took
the babe back to our village
to be raised with the women.
Chacrow, I respect your ways.
It isn't so much that my girl is
to grow up English,
it's that I want her here with me.
She is a Sharrow first.
Henry...
I have given you a child.
I will give another.
But the little one must be mine,
be her mother's for the first years.
I've decided what it is to be,
Winganuske.
You'll abide by your husband.
The fighting Sharrow baby!
A-ha! Better today.
Who is that boy?
Tamlin Appleday, ma'am.
He works four times faster
than all the men, five times harder
and six times more cheery.
Ma'am, he is curious.
Why so?
Ma'am, he sings.
(SINGS SOFTLY)
You have a marvellous appetite
for labour, child.
I have a marvellous appetite
for lying in the sun
and looking at the sky!
Boy, I did not say you could cease
from your work.
I have done enough toil for today.
Then come with me.
So I might reward you
for your fine efforts.
I warm to contrary and spirited
souls, Tam Appleday.
But if one worker defies me,
then they all will.
You will labour when I tell you to
and you might enjoy a treat of best
beef when it takes my fancy.
Now, go back to the field
like a defeated animal
and you and I will be fine friends.
Henry! Henry!
(BABY CRIES)
The fever has returned, Henry.
We will go to the settlement
and speak to Dr Priestley.
Pepper, bring the horse.
(CONTINUES CRYING)
Yay! (LAUGHS)
Ahh!
(CHEERING)
The boy is a miracle!
That's my drink, boy.
Don't you know respect...
If you have no goodness in you,
at least have the wits
to pick a fight you can win.
(POT SHATTERS)
(GUFFAWS)
James, he's a boy.
He's drunk. He knows no better.
If you strike a man from behind,
you wretch,
you will die a coward's death.
Keep him away from me.
Child!
Ain't you a sorry fool
to your own self, huh?
(FIDDLE PLAYING RESUMES)
Does Lettice have dainty feet?
I do not know. Christopher, you are
to marry the woman.
Every aspect of her
must be imprinted on your mind.
Tell me of her likeness.
Well, her eyes are green.
And -
Oh, I fear that green eyes
are renowned as the picture
of a shallow soul.
But I'm sure no woman named Lettice
could be shallow.
Jocelyn, why do you seek
to sow doubt in my soul?
Are you lonely?
No.
No. You are afraid.
I see it.
(VIRGINIA CRIES)
The babe has a terrible fever,
Doctor.
Let the doctor take a look at her.
He'll know what the matter is.
How long has she been sick?
Virginia was stricken two days ago.
Crying as if she were in pain.
Just like now.
But her fever subsided.
I thought nothing of it.
She has an ague.
I saw a man with such a fever
two weeks ago.
Quiet yourself, women.
The doctor will heal the baby.
Has she been much by the river?
Yes. Always.
This man, did he...did he recover?
He did, yes.
(CONTINUES CRYING)
We'll have to bleed her.
Place her on the bench there,
please. Hold her still.
Come on.
There you go. There you go.
(VIRGINIA HOWLS)
(VIRGINIA CRIES)
(WOOD CLATTERS)
Go wait here, Winganuske.
Let the doctor do his work.
(GASPS)
(PANICKED BREATHING)
Sir, our child is sick.
My wife believes that because you're
buckled-backed that you were
the cause of it.
That you...poured poisoned spirits
into the girl.
Then let me remove myself
from her sight,
so that you might pacify her.
Meredith?
Look at them, Verity.
Sitting there on the bed.
Hey.
(WHISTLES)
Come back to sleep, lover.
Look. Little birds, Verity.
Such sweet cooing woke me.
Ain't we blessed?
Come back to sleep.
Come on. Go back to sleep.
(WHISTLES)
Sssh-sssh-sssh. Sssh-sssh-sssh.
(HORSE SNORTS)
(DISTANT SPLASHING AND LAUGHTER)
(WHOOPING AND LAUGHTER)
Whoo! Whoo-hoo-hoo!
(LAUGHTER)
Whoo!
Er... Ma'am? Ma'am?
They was all working and Tam
the hardest of them all and...
And then he found a rope on the tree
and swung and he splashed
and he laughed.
Then everyone started swinging
and laughing.
You, boy!
You will leave my land and you will
not return. Do you understand?
You are not wanted
and you are not welcome here.
Hup-hup! Aho-aho!
Hup-hup! Hup-hup!
Aho-aho! Hup-hup!
(MEN CHANTING)
(ENTHUSIASTIC WHOOPING)
(MEN SINGING)
(INAUDIBLE CONVERSATION)
Henry, Winganuske wants me
to fetch her brother here.
Then be on your way. She says I'm to
ask Chacrow to bring the sorcerer.
You must make your own decisions
in life. Master Sharrow,
are you to invite the Naturals
to display heathen rituals in
Jamestown?
It'll be a comfort to my wife,
that is all, till little Virginia's
sickness passes.
But ain't we beholden to teach them
to be rid of their heresy?
When my skin was burnt, it were the
Naturals who brought me back to life.
I have no cause to condemn
their beliefs.
Suppose they were to come here
to witness the benefits
of our medicine?
I am told that the Indians value
evidence that displays
a superior god.
You might use it to persuade them
towards conversion.
You see politics
in a child's sickness?
I do not require lessons in morality
from you, sir.
Pepper, do as my wife wishes.
Deliver her brother.
Governor...
it occurred to me, if we can provide
some display of English science,
it might persuade Opechancanough
to provide us with boys
to work on our farm
in exchange for learning.
I might carry the notion.
A woman? To talk on my behalf
before the Naturals?
Never.
Do you suppose that I would let
Opechancanough consider me so weak?
It might happen, widow,
but not with you.
What are you doing here, boy?
Why aren't you at your own work?
Didn't take Mistress Castell long
to have enough of you.
Have you seen my husband?
He went out the gates.
If you find him, bring him back to me
and I'll feed you your breakfast.
Master Read.
You've set yourself
above the moral wheel of Jamestown.
Was it you who removed
the head from the spike?
The talk of the tavern is, Marshal,
that you wish to spare
your companion
the same scorn in death
that he faced in life.
Sir!
What was the crime that saw such
a fine gentleman as Secretary Farlow
separated from the seat of
his senses?
For what sins had God put that hump
on your back?
Luck has blessed me, Marshal,
with not one ugliness, but two.
So that I will never know
compliments, never expect kindness,
never wish for flattery.
In short, so that I am free of any
and all obligation to devotion or
friendship
such as those that torment you.
Now...
you might wish to mark my name, sir.
Willmus Crabtree.
I have it heeded well enough.
I can sell the best goods here
as fast as I can ship them,
Master Read.
Is there anywhere in this world
where a man might better
make a fortune?
Those that have the fire for it.
It must cost you quite a penny
to import such...
fine furnishings.
These are not my goods, sir.
I am merely an exporter's factor,
here to drum on behalf of
better men.
Who is it that you trade for?
Isn't it marvellous
that men might grow rich?
Women, too.
Those that have land granted to them
might prosper beyond reckoning.
Now there's a woman
who fears no God.
Who could miss how she defied the
Governor and had every woman walk
from the Assembly?
Oh...
Oh, but wouldn't she make any man's
cock dance to her tune?
I've seen how you look upon her,
Master Read.
It is not enough to desire
such a beauty. She must be tamed.
Oh? And how might a man do that?
First, the lady must believe
that only he can see her truest
loveliness.
Only he can perceive the wonder
at the core of her.
And do you suppose that the widow
would be so easily duped, sir?
The best deception is served
with sincerity.
I will show you how it is done.
(BABY VIRGINIA CRIES)
(DISTRESSED CRYING)
Does the child suffer terrible, sir?
The vitality has been sapped
from all of her regions.
Sir, if the Naturals fetch
a sorcerer...
..is it true they try to call
the evil out with singing?
(SIGHS) I have never seen it.
I'm told that they do.
But the Naturals do have medicines.
They know the herbs
and the plants so well.
I have witnessed such wonders of
recovery.
Dr Priestley...
are you saying you prefer
their ways?
No, I don't.
The child will be healed best
if I bleed her again.
(SIGH ECHOES)
Master Rutter.
Tam boy.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Did my wife send you here
to find me?
She worries. She worries about me.
She thinks I'm bewildered.
A drinking man don't mind
bewilderment.
Rest here with me, Tam.
I'm just sitting here
and watching the river flow.
Hey.
I know you have the rascal in you.
I was the same at your age.
All fights, roaring, revelling.
I saw you tearing the daylight
out of that tabor, boy,
and I said to myself, I says,
'Ain't it a miracle?'
That face of yours...
I know it well.
Tell me the truth now.
Is that why you come here?
To find me?
To discover your pa?
A man knows his own skin,
sure he does.
I'm to take you back, Master Rutter.
Tam, Tamlin, suppose that...
Suppose we could say
all them years...
..since I left were lost.
Now is the beginning.
Do you suppose we could do that?
Could we do that, little Tam?
He heard I were a mariner,
so he asked about the docks,
till a sailor told him that he
travelled with Meredith Rutter
to Virginia.
Isn't that something, hey?
A boy come across the ocean
to seek his pa!
Hey.
(GASPS)
(RATTLING STOPS)
I'm sorry, Winganuske.
(GASPS)
(SOBS)
I am truly sorry, Henry.
(WINGANUSKE WAILS)
Sweet Sharrow child.
We take some barley.
Corn if there's no barley.
Oats if there's no corn.
Rye will do a fine job of it,
my boy.
Here is where we do all the malting.
So it sprouts
and then dries in the kiln here.
Ah...
You will learn to love...
this mash tun, as your pa does.
Some put in honey for nourishment.
But we have the best hops.
And that's the flavour.
Did I tell you the wort goes...
You'll learn it all.
Where is my broom straw?
I'll be back!
Why do you let him call you 'son'?
It's what he wants.
He believes it, Tam. Where is the
harm in that if it fills his heart?
Ah, sweet Tamlin, you're just...
You're just a golden boy.
(WARNING BIRD CALL)
(CHAIN RATTLES)
(ALL GASP)
Come.
If you give me boys
to work on my farm,
we will teach them magic
such as this.
Mercy Myrtle, meet my son.
When did he become your son?
I came here to look for my pa.
Why didn't you say that,
instead of working on the farm?
Master Redwick, sir, my own son.
My own son.
Dr Priestley, you're a man of
science, sir. Can you see
the likeness between us?
Be better familiarity when Tamlin
grows a beard on his face.
I can see the likeness now.
Master Thorpe!
I want you to meet my son.
I'm telling you, Verity, the boy
stole a knife from my forge.
Did you see him? Well, if I'd seen
him I'd have tanned his hide.
Then how can you be certain?
Why are you so determined to protect
that wretch from a scolding?
James! James, James.
Su... Suppose I plead with the child?
I'll ask him who took the blade.
James, I have never seen Meredith
this contented. Never.
He's sober.
He's working. He's brewing.
Last night, in bed,
he took me in his arms...
and he was a man again.
Something in young Tam has restored
my husband and I want...
with all my living soul
to hold onto that.
(OVERLAPPING CONVERSATIONS)
Your trade is booming,
Master Crabtree.
Because Jamestown is booming, madam.
The ladies all wish to purchase
this fine looking glass.
Then why do you not sell it to them?
I'm saving it for you,
Widow Castell.
But, sir, I do not want it.
Oh, but you will. Once you perceive
its attractions.
Please...
look into the glass.
Reflected back is a likeness.
Yours, for instance.
Your eyes blazing and beguiling.
Your face could put a pearl
to shame.
Your form could mesmerise any man.
Perhaps that is what you see.
Look again.
I see there such a longing for...
What is it?
Ah, yes.
A yearning for wonder.
Most people live for the gains of
the flesh or the purse.
You, madam,
you seek the deepest glories
of life.
You fancy yourself the poet, sir?
Forgive me, madam.
I am a man who cannot help but speak
what he perceives.
I thank you, Master Crabtree,
but I still have no intention of
purchasing the glass.
Oh, but I did not say
you would buy it, madam.
Henry, we must take the child
to our village.
She must be buried there.
She is a Sharrow.
She belongs on this land.
The priest must send the little one
on her way to the other world.
With all true funeral rites.
She is a Sharrow.
Henry...
the babe must be given
her burial gifts
to take with her.
She is a Sharrow.
You said she would live.
Henry, I did not say that.
You said the man you treated did not
die. But I did not mean that -
You let me believe!
Henry, please, a child is weaker -
Listen to me.
You speak truthfully, Doctor.
For your life depends on it.
Was it your failing that meant
my babe did not survive?
You cannot ask the man
such a thing, Henry.
I believe...
..she may have benefitted from some
other medicines, which the Naturals
might provide.
But I didn't have the courage
to tell you, because you placed
your trust in me.
That was my failing.
When you pass me on the street...
you will not look at me.
You'll look away.
I never again want to feel
your measly eyes upon me.
Oh, Henry Sharrow!
Henry Sharrow, did you hear of it?
My boy came to find me.
This is my boy here.
Ain't you gonna congratulate me
on my blessings?
He ain't your son.
Don't you see the likeness?
Your son died at three years old,
while you were in the alehouse
filling your throat.
You've told me so yourself
many times.
A dead child don't come back.
Meredith?
Henry... Henry is a man broken by
sorrow. That's...
That's only his own loss speaking.
Meredith? Meredith?
Would you take me?
Would you?
(GASPS)
Would you make a fool out of me?
You...get up!
Come here.
Get out of my tavern!
You ain't no son of mine!
No son of mine!
Now get out of here!
(COUGHS)
Go on! Off!
(DISTANT DOG BARKS)
This is my fault.
I should have told my husband
he was bewildered.
I should never have allowed you
to pretend that you were his boy.
That was your kindness to him.
And...
he will see that.
Tam?
Aaa-aaah!
It don't matter
that you're not our blood.
I'm here to tell you
that you have a home.
Here with us.
Where you can live.
Where you'll never be cast out.
(WINCES)
Ma'am, I told him, I said,
'My mistress isn't here, you must
wait for her return.'
But, ma'am, he would not listen,
he simply carried it into the house
and placed it down.
(GASPS)
What?
You've come to look at the blood on
my hand, have you?
Does that prove, does it,
that you were right?
And I was wrong about the boy.
He took a knife to me.
Oh, he's a dangerous beast!
I hope that you choke on your virtue.
(VOICE BREAKS) I'm trying to pray
to a God I don't believe in.
I would pray to the clouds,
I would pray to the birds,
I would pray to you...I...
I would pray to the bastard...
doorknob, if I thought it would give
that child one moment
of knowing he is loved...
..he is wanted.
(CHOKES BACK TEARS)
Sure, Meredith thinks that
Tam is like him.
But...
..he is the same as me.
Willmus Crabtree.
He claims to be a man of trade,
when everything about him admits
that he is something of a hunter.
Why do you say that? When Governor
Yeardley stepped out of his house
carrying Secretary Farlow's head,
the world had its eyes on him.
Willmus Crabtree slipped into
Yeardley's house, quiet as a mouse.
What did he want in there? I don't
think he was mourning the loss of
the dead man.
(INDISTINCT GREETINGS)
Why did he do that?
Cos he knows who took the head
from the spike.
And you saw who stole it, didn't you?
It was our Governor himself.
(FLIES BUZZING)
(BUZZING INTENSIFIES)
(GASPS)
(RUMBLE OF THUNDER)
(WATER GURGLES)
(RUSTLE OF BROOM SWEEPING)
(SOFT DRUMBEAT)
(WOMEN KEENING)
(DRUMBEAT CONTINUES)
(WAILS)
(MUSIC DROWNS ANGUISHED HOWL)
You have fathomed me for more than
a merchant. Why is that?
Consider that it might be
because I allowed you to.
I've gained more land by the river
to farm and you will go there.
Without Maria. To live and work.
She wishes to stow away in a hold
and she wishes you to help her
do it.
Will you help me?
MARIA: You want to kill Yeardley?
Will your pride let you stay here,
when you know what will become of us?
Pedro?
Subtitles by explosiveskull
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org